>> I'm radio and television
host, Jimmy Church.
And I'm here to uncover
the truth about some
of life's biggest mysteries.
If this is revealed,
everything has to be rewritten.
My guest today is Avi Loeb,
astrophysicist and professor
of science at
Harvard University,
who discovered the
earliest known object
from another solar
system to hit Earth.
>> Over the past five years,
we discovered the first three
interstellar objects.
>> Technical assistant Josh.
Josh, can you pull up the map?
>> Yeah.
>> Also joins us to
help set the scenes.
Join us as we deep dive to
get to the bottom of some
of the most intriguing
questions of our time.
>> But the more
evidence you get,
the more convinced you will
get that it's not natural.
>> Hi.
Welcome to Into the Vortex.
I'm your host, Jimmy Church.
And Josh, today we
have Professor Avi Loeb
of Harvard University.
Excited.
>> I am a super fan of
the Galileo Project.
Happy to have you here, Avi.
>> Well, thanks for
having me, Jimmy and Josh.
You may refer to
me as a farm boy.
>> You don't look farmish.
>> I grew up on a farm.
And it pretty much
shaped the way
I approach everything
in my life.
>> This is exciting because of
your journey that you've been
on for a number of years.
This search for ET and
life in the universe
didn't happen overnight.
But how important
is it for academia
to actually be involved
in the search for ET?
>> Well, first, let me explain.
I search for
intelligence from space
because I don't often
find it here on Earth.
And that includes in
the academic world,
there seemed to be a hesitance
in engaging with the subject.
And I find that
inappropriate given
that the public is extremely
interested in the question
of whether there is a smarter
kid on our cosmic block.
And also, we know now that about
a quarter of the sun-like stars
have a planet the
size of the Earth,
roughly at the same separation.
So the dice of intelligence
was rolled tens of billions
of times within the
Milky Way galaxy alone.
It's quite likely that there was
a scientist smarter than Albert
Einstein who lived on an
exoplanet a billion years ago.
And the civilization that
benefited from the wisdom
of that scientist sent probes.
Within half a billion
years, these probes
can make it throughout
the Milky Way galaxy
even if they use
chemical propulsion.
And then they would settle in
the habitable zones near stars.
They can replicate themselves.
And the only way to find out
if we live in such a reality
is to look out.
So it sounds straightforward.
Then on top of that,
over the past five years,
we discovered the first
three interstellar objects.
And that was using
astronomical instrumentation.
And the first two
appear to be weird.
It's a meteor discovered in
2014, tougher than iron, faster
than 95% of all the stars.
And we would like to collect
its fragments because it
could be artificial in origin.
And the second was a Oumuamua
more discovered in 2017,
also didn't look like
a comet or an asteroid,
was flat, had a weird shape.
And so my point is nature is
trying to tell us something.
What's going outside
of the solar system
is different than
what we expect.
It's just like going
to your backyard.
You're used to seeing rocks.
But every now and
then, you might
see a tennis ball or a beach
ball that came from a neighbor.
And that will tell you
that you're not alone
on this street.
So we should be open-minded.
Now you may ask, why is academia
not jumping at the opportunity
to study these things?
And the answer is experts
want to pretend that they know
anything that comes along
based on their past knowledge
because they get their
honors, awards, recognition,
their self-esteem out
of their past knowledge.
They worked hard for
decades acquiring
the status in the academic
community that they have.
And so if they're used
to explaining everything
in the sky, everything in space
as rocks made by nature, then
when an object comes from
outside the solar system,
they would say it's a rock.
To me, it's just like a cave
dweller finding a cell phone.
The cave dweller would
say it's a rock of a type
that I've never seen
before, but it's a rock.
But the more evidence you
get, the more convinced
you will get that
it's not natural.
>> In your book,
Extraterrestrial,
which is an incredible read.
I have personally, as you know,
read this probably 50 times.
And every time I
finish the book, I just
flip it over and
start over again.
There must have
been for somebody
like you a certain amount
of pushback from academia.
How did you deal with that?
>> Well, between 2011
and 2020, for nine years,
I was the longest serving
chair of the Harvard University
Astronomy Department.
And I also chaired the Board
of Physics and Astronomy
of the National Academies.
I'm still the chair of
the Starshot Initiative
of the Breakthrough Foundation.
And I'm also the director
of the Institute for Theory
and Computation and the founding
director of the Black Hole
Initiative.
Now all of these
leadership positions
gave me the confidence
that allows me not
to pay too much attention
to what other people say,
but simply do the right
thing based on common sense.
As I said, I grew up on a farm.
I pay less attention to people.
And then in 2017,
Oumuamua came along.
And it was weird,
so I wrote about it.
A scientific paper
saying maybe it's
artificial in origin because
of all the anomalies.
>> Can you pull that up, Josh?
Do you have an
image of Oumuamua?
>> I do.
I'm worried it's not what Avi
thinks it should look like,
but here we are.
>> Yeah.
So that's the way it should
look like from the side.
It was at least 10 times
longer than it is wide.
But think about a piece of
paper tumbling in the wind.
It would not line
exactly edge on.
And you might think that
it's actually a cigar, where
it's in fact a flat object.
And the best fit
to the reflection
of sunlight from this
object was of a flat shape,
pancake-like shape.
>> Avi, one the things that
confuses me about Oumuamua was
not just pronouncing it, but
was also how it traveled through
space.
I've seen animations where
it spins, or it flips.
And for some reason,
that matters to me.
I was wondering if you by
clarity on how it exactly
moved past Earth.
>> Well, it was tumbling
every eight hours.
And the amount of
sunlight reflected from it
changed by a factor of
10 as it was tumbling.
So that made it quite
unusual because it
meant that it had a very
extreme shape, just like a piece
of paper tumbling in the wind.
But if you think about it
as an artificial object,
you might think that it's
trying to look in all directions
in order to gain some
insight on whether there
is life in the habitable
region around the sun.
And it actually passed very
close to the inner planets,
unusually close.
We are actually
looking right now
into the question of whether
the trajectory was designed
in a very special
way that allowed
it to pass near all of
the habitable planets
when they came close to it.
>> No gravity assist.
>> No.
The only thing is that it
exhibited an excess push away
from the sun without
showing a cometary tail.
And the question
was what pushed it?
And we suggest that maybe it's
the reflection of sunlight.
And then in
September, 2020, there
was another object that
exhibited an excess push away
from the sun by
reflecting sunlight.
No cometary tail.
And after a few
weeks, the astronomers
who discovered it with the
same telescope in Hawaii
realized that it's actually
a rocket booster launched
in 1966 by NASA.
And so it had thin
walls, and therefore,
a large area for its mass.
And we know that we produced
this object artificially.
The question is who
produced Oumuamua?
>> And here's the thing.
All of the artist's
renderings of Oumuamua
are just an interpretation.
We never had any clear
images of Oumuamua.
So when we look at
an image like this
or when you see an
image like this,
I'm sure that you're taken
aback a little bit because this
doesn't represent at all
with the data has shown us.
>> Yeah.
They say a picture is
worth a thousand words.
In my case, it's
worth 66,000 words,
the number of words in my book.
I just want to have
an image of an object
like that, so that I can
demonstrate my point,
that it's not a rock.
When suggesting that it may
be artificial in origin,
I got a huge amount of
pushback and ridicule
by some people who
are not necessarily
practicing scientists.
That's the strange thing.
And I was trained up in the
military at a young age.
I served in the
Israeli military.
And when during the first
few months as a paratrooper,
I remember the saying that
sometimes, a soldier has
to put his body on
the barbed wire,
so that others
will pass through.
And so in order to
bring this subject
to its proper place
in the mainstream,
I realized that I have to go
through this pain of people
saying things on social media.
But I ignore it.
I have no footprint
on social media.
And what I pay attention
to is the evidence.
And the evidence about
Oumuamua looked unusual.
And the same was true
about this meteor
that we discovered with
my student, Amir Siraj.
These were the two
interstellar objects
that we've discovered
over the past five years.
And why would the first
two appear so unusual?
To me, it may imply that
something else is going on
outside the solar system
that we did not think about.
And of course, there
is a huge amount
of pushback against that from
the scientific community.
But I think that the
more evidence we get,
the clearer it would become
that we should consider it,
because this is the
biggest question that
would affect the
future of humanity,
if we find that
we are not alone,
that there is a smarter
intelligence out there.
And it will change our
aspirations in space.
A very advanced,
scientific civilization
is a good approximation
to God if you
think about it because it could
create life in the laboratory.
It could even perhaps
create a baby universe
in the laboratory.
All these attributes that
appear in religious texts
in association with
God could relate
to a civilization that
is a million years more
advanced than we are in
science and technology.
And so finding out if such
a thing exists out there,
discovering the unknown is
similar to spirituality.
Trying to explore the
unknown is giving us
a meaning to our lives.
>> With Oumuamua, what I always
found extremely interesting is
that the data said one thing,
but the professionals out there
tried to make that data
fit their opinions.
They tried to make it fit
into some natural cosmic event
when the data represented
something completely different.
We're talking about
a craft that seemed
to be under intelligent
control, was turning on its own,
was increasing its speed, didn't
have any means of propulsion.
It wasn't gravity-assisted.
All of these things.
But academia tried to
force their belief system
into data that didn't work.
And that's what the book was
about, was this conflict.
And by you presenting
the conflict,
does that create more problems?
>> Yeah.
So at first, the
mainstream astronomer
said it must be natural.
And then they started to come
up with natural objects that
might explain the
anomalies of Oumuamua.
For example, a dust bunny.
A cloud of dust particles
that is very loosely bound,
100 times less dense than air.
So that by reflecting sunlight,
it gets pushed like a feather.
The problem with that is it
won't maintain its integrity.
It will be heated up
to hundreds of degrees
and will not survive the
journey near the sun.
And then there was
another suggestion.
OK, so maybe it's a
chunk of frozen hydrogen.
And when the
hydrogen evaporates,
it behaves just
like a comet, but we
can't see it because
hydrogen is transparent.
The problem with that is it
won't survive the journey
in interstellar space.
Hydrogen would
evaporate very quickly.
And so when that group of people
who suggested the hydrogen
iceberg realized that after
we wrote a paper about it,
then there was another
team that suggested maybe
it's a nitrogen iceberg.
A chunk of frozen nitrogen
chipped off the surface
of a planet like Pluto.
And there, the problem is there
is not enough frozen nitrogen
in the Milky Way
galaxy to produce
a population of such chips.
So all of these suggestions
have problems, but all of them
also talk about something
that we've never seen before.
We don't know if
nature makes a dust
bunny, if nature makes a
hydrogen iceberg or a nitrogen
iceberg.
Yet these are the possibilities
that the astronomy community
embraced just because they
allowed a natural explanation
to all the anomalies
of Oumuamua.
And I say if it's
an object of a type
that we've never seen
before, we should
allow for the possibility
that it's artificial.
>> Well, was that
the mistake though?
The mistake of being asleep
when Oumuamua was here,
didn't have the opportunity
to capture the data.
It was here.
We only had 11
days to observe it.
It's now gone.
We will never collect
more data on Oumuamua.
That's an impossibility.
And now, we have
the Galileo Project,
which is primed and ready
to go if an event like this
happens again.
>> Right.
And we also have
a dating app now,
the Vera Rubin
Observatory in Chile, that
will start operations in 2023.
And it could
identify more objects
like Oumuamua that
look weird unlike,
a comet or an asteroid that are
familiar from the solar system.
And I call it a dating
app because if we identify
an object that is worth
rendezvousing with,
we could spend $1,000,000,000
on a space mission
that will come close to it and
take a close up photograph.
And that's part of the activity
within the Galileo Project.
Designing such a mission.
And we also have
the Webb telescope
that can look at such an object
from a different direction
than the observatories on Earth.
And then can, in
principle, figure out
the motion of this object
in three dimensions
and tell us whether
it has propulsion
that is different
than the rocket effect
from cometary evaporation.
And it could also tell us the
composition of the object.
So now that we are alert
to this possibility,
we could find much more
about the next Oumuamua.
>> Oumuamua, of course, 2017.
And there was a lot of
extraordinary things in the UAP
UFO community that
happened over that period
of a couple of months.
It was a pretty exciting time.
But in 2014, the
Department of Defense
and other agencies here
in the United States
monitored an object apparently
from interstellar space entered
our atmosphere and is somewhere
in the vicinity of Papua New
Guinea.
And this is your next project,
in addition to, of course,
Galileo.
>> Right.
So aside from objects that
reflect sunlight and pass
near the Earth, we
have an opportunity
of using the Earth
as a fishing net.
It could collide with an object
along its path around the sun.
And the advantage of that is
that when an object burns up
in the atmosphere of the
Earth, it shines very brightly,
so we could, in principle,
see much smaller objects
than Oumuamua.
Oumuamua was the size
of a football field.
And this meteor from 2014 that
the government missile warning
systems identified was roughly
the size of a watermelon.
And we didn't see it because
of the reflection of sunlight.
We saw it because it burned
up in the Earth's atmosphere.
And it was very different
than Oumuamua in the sense
that it was tougher than iron.
We know from the light
curve that the government
released that it burned only
in the lower Earth atmosphere.
And as a result, it was
subjected to extreme stress
from the atmosphere.
And it must have been
very tough, tougher
than 273 of all other meteors
in the government catalog.
And so it was an outlier in
terms of its composition.
Tougher than iron.
And also, it was
moving faster than 95%
of all the stars in
the vicinity of the sun
outside the solar system.
So it could have
been a spacecraft.
If you imagine the New
Horizons spacecraft,
that is making its way
out of the solar system,
a billion years from now
colliding with an exoplanet.
And the astronomers
there saying, oh,
look at this meteor.
And some astronomers
say, oh, forget about it.
It's just a rock.
But others are curious enough
to check the ocean floor where
the fragments landed and
realized that it was actually
made of an alloy and not
a rock, rocky material.
And moreover, in the case of
the New Horizons spacecraft,
they would find
perhaps this small box
that was attached
to it that included
30 grams of the ashes of Clyde
Tombaugh, the scientist who
discovered Pluto.
And they would say, well,
that makes little sense
because these ashes are just
like the ashes of a cigarette.
They contain no information.
So these humans burned up
the genetic information
about a person that they
wanted to commemorate.
And therefore, they
must be very aggressive.
They have these
primitive rituals.
We don't want anything
to do with these humans.
>> You know, when
they arrive, Avi,
they're going to
ask for you first.
The difference in data
from what a university
or professional organization
would collect it's
obviously different from
eyewitness testimony
that we've had for decades.
But you've just
mentioned evidence
a couple of times and data.
What evidence is there?
What do you consider evidence?
And how would that be different
from a cell phone video
from somebody that is just
seeing something in the sky?
>> Right.
So let me start by saying
that I grew up on a farm.
And I was attached to nature,
much more than to people.
I distinguish between the two
because people can tell you
stories that are not real.
They have some hidden agenda.
And so I would like to advance
my knowledge based on evidence,
based on clues that we collect
directly from nature, not
through the filter of people.
And when people use
their cell phones,
they usually have a camera
that has an aperture
of only a few millimeters.
So it's very small.
And the images are quite fuzzy
when you look at an object
several miles away.
And that's just
the laws of optics.
You can't improve on that.
The only way to improve is
to get a bigger aperture,
like a telescope, and look
at the object and resolve it.
And if you see a label made
on exoplanet so-and-so, then
you know that it's
not from this Earth.
Now the government says
they have high quality data,
but it's classified.
And people who looked at that
say that is a serious matter.
However, waiting
for the government
to declassify the data is
just like waiting for Godot
in Samuel Beckett's play.
You can wait forever.
I'm not patient.
And therefore, since the
sky is not classified,
I would like to get my
own data as a scientist.
That's the way to make progress.
And once the data
is good enough,
it will be impossible
to avoid it.
So for example, if you
go back for centuries,
Galileo Galilei looked
through his telescope
and realized, oh,
maybe the Earth is not
at the center of the universe.
He was ridiculed.
Philosophers at the time
put him in house arrest.
Today, he would have been
canceled on social media.
That didn't change the fact that
the Earth moves around the sun.
Reality is whatever it is.
If you were to ask these
philosophers to design a space
mission that would
reach Mars, they
would never get
to the destination
because they thought that
Mars moves around the Earth.
And so people can have presence
on social media or on campuses
and ridicule one
thing or another.
That's irrelevant.
Nature is whatever it is.
And the only way
for us to find out
is to get more
evidence, more data.
But if you keep saying that this
subject is not worth studying,
then you will never
get that data.
It's like a
self-fulfilling prophecy.
If you keep saying everything
in the sky must be natural,
cannot be artificial unless we
have extraordinary evidence,
well, guess what?
People often quote Carl Sagan
as saying extraordinary claims
require extraordinary evidence.
I say extraordinary evidence
requires extraordinary funding.
You have to look for
the evidence actively.
Just as an example,
we don't know
what most of the matter
in the universe is.
In 1933, Fritz Zwicky,
an astronomer at Caltech,
argued that it's of
unknown substance.
We don't see that substance
in the solar system.
And so it's called dark matter.
And we've invested billions
of dollars, most recently,
in the context of the
Large Hadron Collider,
smashing particles
at high energies,
trying to see if the dark
matter particles are produced.
We didn't find them.
So if we will invest billions
of over the next few decades
in the search for equipment
from other civilizations,
just because we send
out spacecraft to space
that will go out of
the solar system,
and we know of tens of
billions of other planets
within the Milky
Way who could have
had intelligent life on them.
And that could have happened
a billion years ago.
So perhaps, there is
something in our backyard.
That all makes sense.
If we do that search
and not find anything
despite the billions of
dollars that we invested,
we would be at
exactly the same point
as dark matter
searches are right now.
And they are part of the
mainstream of science.
So that's why we establish the
Galileo Project, where we are
funded by private donations.
And we will go ahead
and collect the data,
make it open to the public.
The analysis will
be transparent.
And hopefully, we'll
know what's out there.
>> The team has
been put together.
And just recently, you've
installed collection equipment
on a rooftop at Harvard.
Josh, can you pull this up?
And as we take a
look at this, Avi,
what instruments
are you using here,
and what do you expect to find?
>> Well, we're trying to
take a video of the sky
in the infrared, in the
optical band, in the radio,
and also in audio, so that we
can trace objects in the sky.
And the idea is
to figure out what
are these mysterious objects
that the government is talking
about as aerospace, transmedium
objects of unidentified nature.
In November, 2021,
I attended the forum
at the Washington
National Cathedral
with the Director of National
Intelligence Avril Haines.
And I was sitting
next to her and asking
her, what's your gut feeling,
because she delivered a report
to Congress at the time.
And what's your
gut feeling about
these unidentified objects?
And she said, I don't know.
And she was educated
as a physicist.
So I say let's help the
government figuring it out
because the government is not
a scientific organization.
It's worried mostly
about national security
and about the safety
of military personnel.
But scientists can
address everything else.
And if these objects are
not human-made or natural,
we can figure out their nature
by taking high resolution
images or monitoring
their motion in the sky.
To do that, we need to observe
these objects in the infrared,
in the optical band,
radio, and audio,
and then feed the data to
artificial intelligence
algorithms that will
identify objects,
and we will use
machine learning,
learn from experience.
And basically, there
will be two baskets
that will include most of
the objects that we see.
One of them is natural objects,
like birds, bugs, lightnings,
meteors.
The second would be
human-made objects,
like drones, airplanes.
And the question is is
there something else,
and is it out of this Earth?
So the government
says we see things
that we don't understand.
And they would never come
out if they had the suspicion
that it's an adversary because
that's part of their day job,
to figure out what the
adversaries are doing.
But they go to
Congress and say, there
is something else that doesn't
belong to those nations.
And so the question
is what is it?
And if it's out
of this Earth, it
doesn't adhere to
national borders,
it should be the
subject of science
because science
is international.
Science is all about sharing
our knowledge in open fashion.
Government is about protecting
the nation against threats.
It's about classifying
information such
that adversaries will
not be aware of it.
So there is a
difference in the way
that the scientific approach
is applied to such questions.
>> Are you prepared for a
discovery, the high res image,
something absolutely
extraordinary,
and then the government coming
in, running a block on this
and saying this is in the
interests of national security.
We're taking control
of this data.
Are you prepared for that, and
what have you thought about it?
>> I'm not worried
about it at all
because if it's of
extraterrestrial origin,
it's not a threat to the
United States in particular.
It's a subject that
should be dealt
with by humanity as a whole.
And my hope is that by
recognizing a smarter kid
on our block, we will treat
each other as equal members
of the human species because
the differences among us
will be meaningless relative
to the technological gap
between us and them.
And this is also an opportunity
to learn something new
because it might appear
as if we are looking
over the shoulder of
a smarter classmate
to find answers to
fundamental questions,
like discovering
new technologies,
discovering new
science, new physics.
But if it saves us millions
of years, it's worth it.
And I would rather learn from
a smarter kid on our block
than try to invent
the will in a way.
So I think it's an opportunity
more than a risk for us.
>> So what's the most amazing or
the most exciting evidence that
you've collected so far?
>> That the first interstellar
meteor, for example,
discovered in 2014 was tougher
than all the other meteors
in the catalog that the
government compiled,
273 of them.
It was twice as tough as iron
because it disintegrated only
in the lower
atmosphere of Earth.
It was moving at 45
kilometers per second.
Very fast.
And that implied that it
had a very strong material
strength because
otherwise, it would
have disintegrated far above.
And the government
released the light curve
of the explosion
that took place.
And we analyzed it and realized
that it was tougher than iron.
And moreover, it
was moving faster
than 95% of all the stars
in the vicinity of the sun
outside the solar system.
And so maybe it
was a spacecraft.
The only way to find out
is to collect the fragments
from this explosion, which are
at the bottom of the Pacific
Ocean, about 100 miles off
the coast of Papua New Guinea.
>> So Avi, what evidence have
you captured with the Galileo
Project so far?
What's the most compelling
evidence you've captured?
>> Well, so far, we haven't
captured new data because we
just established the suite of
instruments that we are using.
And in coming months, we'll
test those instruments,
collect data, and analyze it
with artificial intelligence
algorithms.
And then we'll deploy those
instruments at a location
where unidentified
objects were reported.
And once we start collecting
data, we will analyze the data.
And eventually, hopefully,
within the coming year,
release it to the public.
>> What's the plan, Avi?
You have to have a plan in place
to present this to the media.
And what is that
Rubicon that you
have to cross of what is
presentable and exciting?
What's the plan?
>> First, we will make
sure that we understand how
the instruments work because
government data is collected
by instruments that they
have no full control over,
like if it's a camera in a
jittery cockpit of a fighter
jet.
You don't know exactly what
the fighter jet was doing.
We would have full control
over the instruments.
We will try to understand all
the systematic effects that
may come into play.
And then analyze the data.
Write a scientific
paper about it.
Submit it to a peer
reviewed journal.
And once it's accepted
for publication,
we'll release the data, make it
open, so anyone can analyze it.
So that's the scientific process
of getting peer reviewed data
to be open to the
scientific community.
And if we do find a
visitor in our backyard,
the implications
will be dramatic.
The search for extraterrestrial
intelligence in the past
was looking for radio
signals from stars that are
thousands of light years away.
And if we were to detect such
a signal, which by the way,
is a very naive
proposition because we
developed radio communication
only over the past century.
And we are backing
off from it right now
because we have fiber optic
for transferring data,
rather than radio.
We are also using
lasers for radio
for communication in space.
And so another civilization
using this primitive mode
of communication for
a long period of time
is not necessarily out there.
And moreover, civilizations
may have a lifetime
that could be quite
short once they
develop their
technologies because
of self-inflicted wounds.
So searching for those
signals make little sense
because those
signals may have been
generated a billion years ago.
And by now, they're a
billion light years away.
However, if those civilizations
sent anything to space, probes,
those probes are still
confined by gravity
to the Milky Way galaxy.
So they collect in this basket
called the Milky Way galaxy,
and we can find them around us.
And now the question
is what to do if we
find a visitor in our backyard?
It's a completely
different situation
because you don't have
the luxury of saying, OK,
the signal came from
1,000 light years away.
Therefore, it took 2,000 years.
We have 1,000 years to respond.
There's plenty of time.
No rush.
Here, it's like having a
person in your backyard,
you have to do
something about it.
We don't have a protocol.
And who represents humanity?
We don't have an
organization that does it.
What to do about the
technological gap?
Suppose this device
is very advanced
relative to what we possess,
how do we interpret its intent?
Imagine ants on a
sidewalk witnessing
a biker that stopped
just next to them
and starting to discuss what
protocol should we follow
in engaging with this biker?
That's completely irrelevant.
The biker wouldn't care
less about these ants.
The biker may step on them.
And so whatever we do might
not be really relevant.
What we should do at
first is figure out
what the intent of
any device we find is
and what the property,
the physical properties
of this device is.
Does it represent
technologies that
are way beyond what
we can imagine,
just like a cell phone
represents technologies
that a cave dweller
would never imagine?
Imagine a cave dweller
going to New York City,
seeing all the
gadgets out there.
That would look like magic.
>> I want to thank you.
What a great conversation today.
And the Galileo
Project, of course,
and what is going on
in Papua New Guinea,
you're going to
discover something.
And it's going to be an amazing
moment for humanity, you,
to touch the first
interstellar object ever.
And I hope that you come back
and make the announcement here.
>> I'd be delighted.
My wife says that if they
ever come to pick me up,
she wants me to do two things.
One, to leave the
car keys with her.
And the second is
to ask them not
to ruin the lawn in our
backyard when they take off.
>> You can't have that.
Thank you, Avi.
Great conversation.
This has been Into the Vortex.
I'm your host, Jimmy Church.